instead of these cries it could have
been dead silence if it wasn't for
grandmother ilham asil kabaha was in
labor after midnight trying to get to a
hospital a closed Israeli military
checkpoint stood in their way trapped
ilham turned the car into a delivery
room I delivered the baby but the ulic
cord was wrapped around his neck so I
cut it and gave him to his mom to
hold I was embarrassed a lot of men were
around me but my fear for the baby was
Stronger my oxygen levels were dropping
and I didn't want to lose him this was
not ilham's first checkpoint
delivery it was during the second
Palestinian intifada a woman was in a
car shouting I delivered the baby but I
can't remember if it was a boy or a girl
both the mother and baby sham are in
good
health but not every story has a
positive
end R shows us her daughter's birth
certificate next to it a death
certificate on the same day in
2003 along with her husband dud roua
remembers Their Fear at this is
checkpoint a few minutes drive from
their home in burin in the north of the
occupied West Bank soldiers asked her to
sit quietly the eight-month pregnant
lady was anything but that she started
shouting I gave birth B followed by
silence and another shout I think she
died when I wrapped her and I held her
to my chest I said she's most likely
dead she started turning blue but I
wasn't sure I had hoped that she would
still be alive baby Meera lived and died
at the
checkpoint I had to cut the empirical
cord with two stones then they allowed
me to take her to the
hospital 3 years later the couple had
another daughter they named Hera too for
many Palestinian women the journey to
Motherhood is not always a joyous
occasion but comes with difficulties and
obstacles just a few hours ago the
Israeli military installed this gate at
the entrance to the Village mothers
about to give birth and needing to go to
the hospital might not know which gate
is open
and which one is
closed it was a total closure when
20-year-old Kasam Baker was born
in3 he's not sure exactly where but
thinks it's around this area there was
an Israeli checkpoint here now
removed I had hoped to be the last child
to be born at a checkpoint look at us
now 20 years later we hear stories we
know too well his wish is not happening
with baby sham being the last baby we
know of born at a checkpoint sh means
Standing Tall one day his family hopes
he will live up to his name and walk
freely in a land with no
checkpoints n ibraim Al jazer the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer